Editorial review: Document popover="hint" (#37990)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/htmlelement/popover/index.md

{{APIRef("Popover API")}}

The **`popover`** property of the {{domxref("HTMLElement")}} interface gets and sets an element's popover state via JavaScript (`"auto"`, `"hint"`, or `"manual"`), and can be used for feature detection.

It reflects the value of the [`popover`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/popover) global HTML attribute.

## Value

An enumerated value; possible values are:

- `"auto"`

  - : In [auto state](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Popover_API/Using#auto_state_and_light_dismiss):
    - Popovers can be "light dismissed" — this means that you can hide the popover by clicking outside it or pressing the <kbd>Esc</kbd> key.

>     - Usually, only one popover can be shown at a time — showing a second popover when one is already shown will hide the first one. The exception to this rule is when you have nested auto popovers. See [Nested popovers](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Popover_API/Using#nested_popovers) for more details.

Reviewer: YOu mean "only one auto popover" - since manual popovers can be displayed in multiples. Right?
```suggestion
    - Usually, only one `auto` popover can be shown at a time — showing a second popover when one is already shown will hide the first one. The exception to this rule is when you have nested auto popovers. See [Nested popovers](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Popover_API/Using#nested_popovers) for more details.
```

Author: Yup, good catch.

Author: I found another instance of this, and fixed it.

- `"hint"`

>   - : [`hint`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Popover_API/Using#using_hint_popover_state) popovers are similar to `auto` popovers, but with a significant difference. They can be light-dismissed, but they do not light-dismiss `auto` popovers when shown, only `hint` popovers. `hint` popovers tend to be shown and hidden in response to non-click JavaScript events such as [`mouseover`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/mouseover_event)/[`mouseout`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/mouseout_event) and [`focus`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/focus_event)/[`blur`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/blur_event). When clicking on a button, the click itself would cause an open `auto` popover to light-dismiss.

Reviewer 2: I'm glad you added the bit about the click causing a light dismiss.

Reviewer: 1. The spec says:

   > Closes other hint popovers when opened, but not other auto popovers; has [light dismiss](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/popover.html#popover-light-dismiss) and responds to [close requests](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/interaction.html#close-request)."

   We should mention that they respond to close events.

2. You're mixing the terminology here. Light dismiss means "close by clicking outside of popover or Esc key". This implies that light dismiss also causes "popover closing another popover".
3. The end of the sentence "When clicking on a button, the click itself would cause an open `auto` popover to light-dismiss." feels a bit unrelated/irrelevant (it might not be, just not sure of the conclusion - I suspect you're maybe just trying to say too much here)
4. I suggested a similar wording in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/37990/files/7363db084b83dce34262d1757a3f42f831a04739..c7749dabfff2cf5a5282a5023a55bbf8097a287c#r1955342382 but here's a go at this.

```suggestion
  - : [`hint`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Popover_API/Using#using_hint_popover_state) popovers do not close `auto` popovers when they are displayed, but will close other hint popovers.
   They can be light dismissed and will respond to close requests.
   Usually the are shown and hidden in response to non-click JavaScript events such as [`mouseover`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/mouseover_event)/[`mouseout`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/mouseout_event) and [`focus`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/focus_event)/[`blur`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/blur_event).
```

Author: Sure, this sounds pretty good

Author: Update — I've tweaked this wording a bit; in particular, the last sentence wasn't quite right, so I've updated it to

> Clicking a button to open a `hint` popover would cause an open `auto` popover to light-dismiss.

I've also updated this wording in the other places it is used (Popover API "using" guide, HTML popover global attribute).

- `"manual"`

>   - : In [manual state](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Popover_API/Using#using_manual_popover_state):

Reviewer: FWIW "manual state" is an odd term. Easier to refer to a manual, auto or hint popover.

Author: Yeah, I agree with this. On this page especially, it's a value, not a state. I'm not yet convinced that I need to change this terminology everywhere, but on this page, I've updated the `auto` and `manual` definitions so they follow the same structure and style as the `hint` definition.

>     - Popovers cannot be "light dismissed", although declarative show/hide/toggle buttons will still work.
>     - Multiple independent popovers can be shown at a time.

Reviewer: I think the key here is that the display / close is entirely manual. Perhaps reverse these and spell it out. YOu might want to play with the words though.

```suggestion
    - Multiple independent popovers can be shown at a time.
    - Popovers must explicitly be displayed and closed using declarative show/hide/toggle buttons or JavaScript
    - Popovers cannot be "light dismissed" (and are not automatically closed). 

```

Author: I think the wording you've provided for the explicit display/close is good, so I've used that. I've not used quite the same structure as you did, to make sure it follows the same structure as the other definitions.
